So let's go back to the request object we logged here.
Now important just to keep that in mind,
this request object is the object nodejs generated for us with all the data of the incoming request
when we visited localhost 3000 which we in turn can do because we listen to requests on that
port.
So this is the request object, if we have a look at it,
we see it's a very complex object.
There's lots of data in it,
it's not just data,
these are also partly functions we can call and so on,
so this is quite a complex object but we also see that for example we have some headers here. Headers
as I mentioned earlier are metadata, meta information added to a request and also to responses by the way
and there we see for example the host, this was sent too, the request was sent too.
We saw some headers attached by the browser
like for example how the response data should be cached and stuff like that, which browser we used
for that request, which kind of response we would accept, that we accept some html, xml and so on,
that we would accept encoded responses, so where the response is actually minified to well save
bandwidth and so on.
There also was a cookie attached
even, we haven't learned about cookies yet, we'll do so later
but this was attached at some Google Analytics cookie. We saw which http version was used and so on,
so there's a lot we can gain from that request but a bit too much.
Now there are only a few important fields you typically need.
The first important or interesting field is the url, now
let's output that and let's also output, you can output more than one value by separating them with
commas, request method and also request headers here.
Let's output these
three values and restart the server with node app.js,
so now it's again listening and let's reload that page on localhost 3000.
If we do so, now we see the output has changed,
we still have all the header stuff because we're outputting request headers but prior to that, we output
the method which you see here, it's get and you see the url and the url is just the slash here because
the url
is basically everything after our host and we just have localhost,
well nothing
and that basically translates to localhost slash.
If I had /test, now we see another output and there we see /test being logged here and then
also get for the method and our headers.
So this is basically how we can access some information about our request.
Now one crucial thing that is missing here is the response,
so let's have a look at sending responses in the next lecture.